<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content="LyX 2.4.3" />
<title>Ryan Womack C.V.</title>
<style>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
h2.section_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: x-large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: left;

}
blockquote.verse {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 4ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.standard {
	margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
h4.subsubsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.4ex;
text-align: left;

}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.hanging {
margin-left: 4ex;
text-align: left;

}
table {
	border-collapse: collapse;
	display: inline-block;
}
td {
	padding: 0.5ex;
}


</style>
</head>
<body dir="auto">
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-1'>Ryan P. Womack</h2>
<blockquote class='verse'>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-2'><i>curriculum vitae</i></p>
</blockquote>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-3'><table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >homepage: <a href="https://ryanwomack.com">https://ryanwomack.com</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >Alexander Library</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >orcid: <a href="http://orcid.org/0000-0003-4873-4268">0000-0003-4873-4268</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >169 College Avenue</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >blog: <a href="https://ryanwomack.com/blog">ryanwomack.com/blog</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >guides: <a href="http://libguides.rutgers.edu/data">libguides.rutgers.edu/data</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >rwomack@rutgers.edu</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >youtube: <a href="https://youtube.com/librarianwomack">youtube.com/librarianwomack</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >848‒932‒6107</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >mastodon: <a href="https://mastodon.social/@ryandata">ryandata@mastodon.social</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >Last updated: 2025-06-27</td>
<td style='text-align: left; vertical-align: top; ' >github: <a href="https://github.com/ryandata">github.com/ryandata</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-66'>Education</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-67'>M.S., Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Statistics and Biostatistics, 2015</h4>
<blockquote class='verse'>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-68'>Core sequence: Regression Analysis, Interpretation of Data, Design of Experiments, Theory of Probability, Methods of Inference</p>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-69'>Option in Biostatistics: Biostatistics I (Observational Studies), Biostatistics II (Clinical Trials), Life Data Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Survey Sampling</p>
</blockquote>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-70'>M.S.L.S., University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Library Science, 1996</h4>
<blockquote class='verse'>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-71'>Thesis: “An Economic Analysis of the Role of Libraries in the Evolving Information Distribution Structure: Will the Internet Be Your Library in the Digital World?”</p>
</blockquote>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-72'>M.A., University of Pennsylvania, Economics, 1993</h4>
<blockquote class='verse'>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-73'>Concentration in public economics, thesis in economic history</p>
</blockquote>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-74'>B.A., Columbia University, Economics, 1989</h4>
<blockquote class='verse'>
<p class="verse_item" id='magicparlabel-75'><i>summa cum laude</i>, Phi Beta Kappa</p>
</blockquote>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-76'>Librarianship</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-77'>Data Librarian, New Brunswick Libraries, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 2013-</h4>
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemi'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-82'>Promoted to the rank of Librarian I in 2019 (equivalent to full Professor).</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-83'>Designated Point of Contact (lead) for <em>Statistical Data Services</em>, as of 2019, serving as primary expert in statistical data and statistical methods for New Brunswick Libraries.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-84'>Designated Point of Contact (lead) for <em>Government Documents</em>, as of 2020, with sole responsibility for all aspects of government documents for New Brunswick Libraries as of 2023, serving as Interim Government Documents Librarian following the retirement of the Government Documents Librarian.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-85'>With respect to data resources available to the public (e.g., purchased datasets, guides to freely available data, instructional services, data computing facilities for students):
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemii'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-86'>Develop and support user-centric data services in response to the needs of the Rutgers community, including:
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemiii'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-87'>Give workshops on statistical software (especially R), including advanced workshops on topics such as such as IPUMS and the usage of statistical data sources.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-88'>Give workshops on special topics such as data visualization, data wrangling, data literacy, and reproducible research.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-89'>Create integrated, multimodal instructional materials for these workshops that include written PDF guides, screencast videos available through YouTube, and executable software scripts available via Github.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-90'>Work with campus partners such as the Office of Advanced Research Computing and the School of Arts and Sciences to support collaborative training and learning opportunities and develop programs. Examples include workshops on machine learning using the Amarel high performance computing cluster, shared workshop calendars and participation in the <a href="https://erdosinstitute.org">Erdos Institute</a> data science bootcamp.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-91'>Through the <em>Graduate Specialist Program</em>, hire and mentor yearly cohorts of graduate specialists in the creation of relevant workshops and presentations supporting data, such as machine learning with Python and R, statistical inference, data wrangling, data visualization, qualitative analysis, diversity and inclusion in data topics, and more. Currently supervising Data Science Graduate Specialist and Diversity in Data Graduate Specialist.</li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-92'>Promote the publicly available data services of the Libraries through outreach, in-person instruction, the creation of instructional materials/guides, individual consultation, social media outreach via YouTube, blog, and via collaboration with subject-specialist librarians and researchers.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-93'>Develop and maintain Libguides for numeric data, data by subject, and economics, and government data resources.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-94'>Work with teaching faculty, librarians, and other campus partners to support quantitative reasoning and quantitative aspects of information literacy in the curriculum (data literacy). </li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-95'>Identify and acquire data resources in collaboration with other librarians and staff, and manage existing data collections.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-96'>Provide in-depth research consultations on finding data, statistical analysis, and statistical software.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-97'>Administered <em>Secure Data Facility</em> (operational 2010-2022), providing access to restricted-use data sets.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-98'>From 2016 to 2018, participated in the New Brunswick Research Spaces Team to study, plan for, and support innovative spaces supporting advanced research, including work with data.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-99'>Beginning in 2018, oversaw creation and implementation of the <em>Graduate Specialist Program</em>, hiring graduate student experts in data analytics, digital humanities, and research methods to provide workshops and consultations to the New Brunswick community, serving as Point of Contact (lead) through 2022. </li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-100'>With respect to faculty-generated research data at Rutgers (datasets deposited by faculty in repositories, data-intensive grant projects):
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemii'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-101'>As the specialist for numeric data, quantitative research methods, data visualization and data analysis, provide support for Rutgers University projects that are data-intensive, as well as consultation and reference on these topics to the Rutgers community in general.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-102'>Participate in grants providing innovative data services, such as the Virtual Data Collaboratory. </li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-103'>From 2016, participate in support for Research Data through the New Brunswick Research Data Services Team (formerly Research Data Outreach Team).</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-104'>Chaired the Libraries’ Research Data Team from 2011 to 2016, leading a period of growth from less than 10 to over 25 professionals engaged with data work.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-105'>Until 2016, in collaboration with the Research Data Manager, participated in the development of research data services. These included data management consultation and training, archiving in RUcore, and developing and refining the Libraries’ policies and guidelines relating to data management. </li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-106'>Until 2016, in relevant areas, as coordinated by the Research Data Manager, consulted with faculty on data management plans and data management needs and worked with faculty to archive data in RUcore. </li>
</ul>
</li><li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-107'>Serve as Rutgers Official Representative to ICPSR and Roper Center.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-108'>Serve as member of the Research Data Services Team.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-109'>Provide bibliographic instruction for courses and research consultation for faculty and students in the Department of Economics (School of Arts and Sciences) and the Department of Agricultural, Food and Resource Economics (School of Environmental and Biological Sciences).</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-110'>Responsible for research guides and collection development in the areas of economics, agricultural economics, and government documents for the New Brunswick Libraries.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-111'>General reference duties including participation in e-mail and chat reference service.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-112'>From 2015 to 2018, served as <em>Head of Research and Content</em>, overseeing department that developed and oversaw research services and created resources to support the researchers of the Rutgers community in New Brunswick, including teams focused on Graduate Services, Content, Research Data Outreach, Scholarly Communication, and Research Spaces.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-113'>Led the work of the <em>Exploratory Committee for the Future of Librarian Roles within New Brunswick Libraries</em>, producing a report on future hiring in 2021 and served as inaugural chair of the Standing Exploratory Committee, charged with recommending specific positions, through 2022.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-114'>From 2022 to 2025, served as <em>Head of the New Brunswick Libraries Research Services Unit,</em> leading NBL personnel in the development of support for research activities aligned with the missions and strategic plans of the Libraries and Rutgers-New Brunswick.</li>
</ul>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-115'>Data and Economics Librarian, Research and Instructional Services (New Brunswick), Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 2008-2013</h4>
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemi'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-116'>Activities and duties substantially the same as those of Data Librarian above. Duties of the position and emphasis on providing numerical and statistical data expertise for the library system were clarified in the reclassification of 2013.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-117'>In addition, served as <em>Research Data Manager</em> for RUcore (2010-2013)
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemii'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-118'>During the initial development and launch of the RUresearch data service, served as primary contact and coordinator for research data.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-119'>Supervised and trained staff member who eventually became Research Data Manager in 2013.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-120'>Developed presentations and outreach strategy to faculty on RUresearch.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-121'>Served on Cyberinfrastructure Steering Committee and Software Architecture Working Group.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-122'>Represented RUresearch in other teams and groups within the Libraries and outside the Libraries at national and university meetings.</li>
</ul>
</li></ul>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-123'>Business and Economics Librarian, New Brunswick Libraries, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 1999-2007</h4>
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemi'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-124'>Granted tenure and promotion to the rank of Librarian II in 2005 (equivalent to Associate Professor).</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-125'>Responsible for all aspects of collection development in the areas of business, economics, agricultural economics, and career information for the New Brunswick Libraries.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-126'>As liaison to the School of Business, the Department of Economics, and the Department of Agriculture, Food, and Resource Economics, provided bibliographic instruction for courses and research consultation for faculty and students.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-127'>Responsible for training New Brunswick Libraries&#8217; faculty and staff on databases and resources in business and economics.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-128'>Developed and maintained online subject research guides and other electronic guides to collections in business and economics.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-129'>Maintained “Wild Card” guide to truncation symbols, 1999-2008.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-130'>General reference duties included regular desk hours at Kilmer Library and Alexander Library, and participation in e-mail reference service.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-131'>Participated in selection and evaluation of system-wide electronic resources.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-132'>Continued as acting business librarian until new Business Librarian hired in June 2009.</li>
</ul>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-133'>Assistant Professor of Bibliography, University of Alabama in Huntsville, 1996-1999 </h4>
<ul class='lyxitem lyxitemi'>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-134'>Responsible for collection development and liaison with the College of Administrative Science, and the departments of Art and Art History, English, Foreign Languages, Music, and Philosophy.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-135'>Taught the credit course, Library Research in Business and Economics.</li>
<li class="itemize_item" id='magicparlabel-136'>Provided instruction, research consultation, and general reference service.</li>
</ul>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-137'>Publications</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-138'>Website</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-139'>Ryan Womack (Founding Editor). <em>The Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal</em> (CAMGDP). <a href="https://camgdp.org">https://camgdp.org</a>. Launched 2023.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-140'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-141'>Peer-reviewed Articles (sole author)</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-142'>7. Ryan Womack, &#8220;ARL Libraries and Research: Correlates of Grant Funding&#8221;, <em>The Journal of Academic Librarianship</em>, volume 42, 2016, pp. 300-312. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acalib.2016.06.006">https://doi.org/10.1016/j.acalib.2016.06.006</a>. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T35X2C99">Preprint in RUcore</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-143'>6. Ryan Womack, &#8220;Research Data in Core Journals in Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics&#8221;, <em>PLoS ONE</em>, volume 10, issue 12, 2015. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0143460">https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0143460</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-144'>5. Ryan Womack, &#8220;Data Visualization and Information Literacy&#8221;, <em>IASSIST Quarterly, </em>volume 38, issue 1, 2014, pp. 12-17. <a href="https://doi.org/10.29173/iq619">https://doi.org/10.29173/iq619</a>. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-145'>4. Ryan Womack, “The Orientation and Training of New Librarians for Business Information”, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 13, issue 3, 2008, pp. 217-226. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/08963560802183203">https://doi.org/10.1080/08963560802183203</a>. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3SN0BKJ">Preprint in RUcore</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-146'>3. Ryan Womack, “Basic Business Dictionaries Compared”, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 10, issue 4, 2005, pp. 3-14. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1300/J109v10n04_02">https://doi.org/10.1300/J109v10n04_02</a>. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3D21VXB">Preprint in RUcore</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-147'>2. Ryan Womack, “Information Intermediaries and Optimal Information Distribution&#8221;, <em>Library and Information Science Research</em>, volume 24, issue 2, 2002, pp. 129-155. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/S0740-8188(02)00109-3">https://doi.org/10.1016/S0740-8188(02)00109-3</a>. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3765CQ6">Preprint in RUcore</a>. Also anthologized in <em>Information Science: Critical Concepts in Media and Cultural Studies, Volume IV, The Economics of Information Science</em>, David Nicholas and Eti Herman (Editors), pp. 275-305. Routledge, 2014.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-148'>1. Ryan Womack, “Bel Jour: A discipline-specific portal to periodicals”, <em>Information Technology and Libraries</em>, volume 21, number 2, 2002, pp. 81-86. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3959FXH">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3959FXH</a>.</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-149'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-150'>Peer-reviewed Articles (co-authored)</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-151'>Laura B. Palumbo, Ron Jantz, Yu-Hung Lin, Aletia Morgan, Minglu Wang, Krista White, Ryan Womack, Yingting Zhang, and Yini Zhu, "Preparing to Accept Research Data: Creating Guidelines for Librarians." <em>Journal of eScience Librarianship,</em> volume 4, issue 2, 2015. <a href="https://doi.org/10.7191/jeslib.2015.1080">https://doi.org/10.7191/jeslib.2015.1080</a>.</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-152'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-153'>Edited Collections </h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-154'>Ryan Womack (Editor), <em>Success by the Numbers: Statistics for Business Development</em>. Chicago: Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, 2005. (RUSA Occasional Paper, number 28).</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-155'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-156'>Published Conference Proceedings</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-493'>Ryan Womack, &#8220;Collaborative Knowledge Creation with the Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal&#8221;, ALTI 2025: Academic Libraries: Trends and Innovations, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, June 12, 2025 [forthcoming].</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-487'>Julia Anne Maxwell, Francesca Giannetti, Triveni Kuchi, Laura Palumbo, and Ryan Womack, &#8220;The Graduate Specialist Program: Students Working in Research and Data Services&#8221;, <em>Proceedings of ACRL 2025: Democratizing Knowledge + Access + Opportunity</em>, Minneapolis, MN, April 2-5, 2025, pp. 434-442. <a href="https://www.ala.org/sites/default/files/2025-03/TheGraduateSpecialistProgram.pdf">https://www.ala.org/sites/default/files/2025-03/TheGraduateSpecialistProgram.pdf</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-158'>Ryan Womack, “High Speed, High Price, High Demand: Business Internet Resources and Databases in American Academic Libraries”, <em>Proceedings of Central Asia 2002: Internet and Library, Information Resources in Science, Culture, Education, and Business</em>, Bukhara, Uzbekistan, October 2002, pp. 37-41. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3ZP44G4">Preprint in RUcore</a>.</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-159'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-160'>Articles in Reference Books</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-161'>Ryan Womack, “Azerbaijan”, <em>The World of Child Labor: An Historical and Regional Survey</em>, Hugh D. Hindman (Editor). ME Sharpe, 2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-162'>Ryan Womack, “Kazakhstan”, <em>The World of Child Labor: An Historical and Regional Survey</em>, Hugh D. Hindman (Editor). ME Sharpe, 2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-163'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-164'>Other Papers</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-165'>Ryan Womack, &#8220;ARL Libraries and Research: Correlates of Grant Funding&#8221;, 2016, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.05104">arXiv:1601.05104</a> [cs.DL].</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-166'>Mei Ling Lo, Li Sun, Ryan Womack, Connie Wu, and Tao Yang. “Celebrating Diversity, Welcoming the World: Developing Chinese Webpages at Rutgers University Libraries”, CALA Occasional Papers Series, number 5, June 2009. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-167'>Ryan Womack, “Career Exploration Resources”, pp. 32-37, in Gary W. White (Ed.), <em>Help Wanted: Job and Career Information Resources</em>, RUSA Occasional Paper, number 26, 2003. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3TX3CRD">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3TX3CRD</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-168'>Ryan Womack, “Radio and the Internet: A study in the development of new communications technology”, <em>Alabama Librarian</em>, volume 49, number 3, 1998, pp. 10-14. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3S46Q9M">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3S46Q9M</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-169'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-170'>Electronic Publications</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-171'>&#8220;Guide to Finding Data about Racism and Ethnic Bias&#8221;, 2023, with other members of the IASSIST Anti-racism Interest Group, available at <a href="https://iassistdata.org/community/antiracism-resources-guide/">https://iassistdata.org/community/antiracism-resources-guide/</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-172'>&#8220;Career Exploration Resources” section in “Help Wanted: Jobs and Career Information for the New Millennium”, bibliography prepared by the Business and Reference Services Section of the Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, 1999, with Pam Craychee.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-173'>“Issues in Access to Information&#8221;, bibliography prepared by the Access to Information Committee of the Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, 1999.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-174'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-175'>Reviews</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-176'>Annual Register of World Events, <em>American Reference Books Annual (ARBA)</em>, volume 40, 2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-177'>American Attitudes, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 40, 2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-178'>Human Development Report, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 40, 2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-179'>eVenturing Entrepreneur’s Resource Center, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 14, number 2, 2008, pp. 81-85.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-180'>The Street.com Ratings’ Ultimate Guided Tour of Stock Investing, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 39, 2008.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-181'>World Directory of Business Information Libraries 2007, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 39, 2008.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-182'>A Financial History of Modern U.S. Corporate Scandals: From Enron to Reform, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 38, 2007.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-183'>An Historical Atlas of Central Asia, <em>AAMES Newsletter</em>, volume 4, number 1, Fall 2006.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-184'>World Monetary Units, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 37, 2006.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-185'>An Eponymous Dictionary of Economics, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 37, 2006.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-186'>Corporate Giving Directory, <em>ARBA</em>, volume 36, 2005.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-187'>Economist.com<em>, Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 10, number 2, 2005, pp. 39-45.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-188'>Bonds Online, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 5, number 4, 2000, pp. 59-65.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-189'>Thomas Register, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, volume 4, number 2, 1999, pp. 69-75.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-190'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-191'>Other</h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-192'>Profiled in &#8220;Data Librarianship: a day in the life&#8221;, chapter 5 of Lynda M. Kellam (with contribution from Katharin Peter), <em>Numeric Data Services and Sources for the General Reference Librarian</em>. Chandos, 2011, pp. 151-160, also Appendix A, pp. 173-213.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-193'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-194'>Talks</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-195'><em>Presentations</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-196'>&#8220;Collaborative Knowledge Creation with the Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal&#8221;, ALTI 2025: Academic Libraries: Trends and Innovations, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, June 12, 2025.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-197'>&#8220;The Graduate Specialist Program: Students Working in Research and Data Services&#8221;, with Julia Anne Maxwell (presenter), Francesca Giannetti, Triveni Kuchi, and Laura Palumbo (presenter). ACRL 2025: Democratizing Knowledge + Access + Opportunity, Minneapolis, MN, April 3, 2025.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-198'>&#8220;Power and the Construction of Knowledge: Overcoming Dynamics of Dominance in the Information Age&#8221;, panel with Janice Pilch (chair), Danica Anderson, Barbara Brigada Krupa, and Christine K. Peter, ASEEES (Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies) Annual Conference, Boston, MA, November 21, 2024.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-199'>&#8220;The Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal, a tool for collaborative and non-violent knowledge production&#8221;, with Aizada Arystanbek, CESS 2024 (Central Eurasian Studies Society), Almaty, Kazakhstan, June 6, 2024.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-200'>&#8220;Expanding and Refining CAMGDP, the Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal&#8221;, with Aizada Arystanbek [poster], IASSIST Annual Conference, Halifax, Nova Scotia, CA, May 29, 2024. <a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11235875">https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11235875</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-201'>&#8220;Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal&#8221;, with Aizada Arystanbek [poster], IASSIST Annual Conference, Philadelphia, PA, June 1, 2023. <a href="https://ryanwomack.com/camgdp">https://ryanwomack.com/camgdp</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-202'>&#8220;Finding tools for data documenting racism and the Black experience internationally and guides for searching and using data with an antiracism lens.&#8221; with Van Bich Tran, Jennifer Boettcher, Kevin Manuel, Jenny McBurney, and Anja Perry, IASSIST Annual Conference, Philadelphia, PA, June 1, 2023. <a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7999836">https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7999836</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-203'>&#8220;Addressing Diversity in Data through the work of Graduate Specialists&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference (Hybrid), Gothenburg, Sweden, June 8, 2022. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o3DmIC3qgiM&amp;t=8s">Prerecorded version of the talk</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-204'>&#8220;From Pilot to JetStream: Building training pathways and collaboration in data science and digital humanities through the Library&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference (Virtual), May 20, 2021. (postponed from 2020 due to COVID-19). <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6DfG0posjg">Short</a>, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32AjyZjv7FQ">medium</a>, and <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vEKGsUVWsh4">long</a> versions of the talk.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-205'>&#8220;Scaling research support services through a graduate specialist program at Rutgers University&#8221;, with Dee Magnoni, OCLC Research, Works in Progress Webinar, July 9, 2020.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-206'>(invited-cancelled due to COVID-19) “Data Visualization in R with ggplot2 and Shiny”, Center for Social Research and Data Archives, Institute of Social Science, University of Tokyo, April 10, 2020.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-207'>(invited-cancelled due to COVID-19) “Building a Culture of Reproducible Research”, Center for Social Research and Data Archives, Institute of Social Science, University of Tokyo, April 9, 2020.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-208'>&#8220;Data in Libraries: Data Processing and Visualization&#8221;, Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, online, March 25, 2020.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-209'>&#8220;Research Metrics Part II&#8221;, Rutgers University Libraries, New Brunswick, New Jersey, December 13, 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-210'>&#8220;Interdisciplinary Data – Views from Graduate Students and Faculty&#8221;, with Grace Agnew and Ron Jantz, Scholarly and Professional Activities Committee, Rutgers University Libraries, New Brunswick, New Jersey, November 28, 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-211'>&#8220;Understanding Research Metrics&#8221;, with Laura Bowering Mullen and Yingting Zhang, Rutgers University Libraries, New Brunswick, New Jersey, February 9, 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-212'>&#8220;Data in Libraries: Data Processing and Visualization&#8221;, Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, online, November 2, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-213'>“Big Data, Data Visualization, and Reproducible Research”, Mongolian University of Science and Technology, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, May 12, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-214'>“Big Data and Data Visualization”, Mongolian University of Life Sciences, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, May 11, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-215'>“Data Literacy”, National University of Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, May 10, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-216'>&#8220;Data in Libraries: Data Processing and Visualization&#8221;, Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association, online, May 4, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-217'>&#8220;Research Data in Core Journals in Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics&#8221;, Scholarly and Professional Activities Committee, Rutgers University Libraries, New Brunswick, New Jersey, December 12, 2016.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-218'>&#8220;Enhancing Understanding Through Data Visualization&#8221;, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, December 5, 2016.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-219'>&#8220;Putting Reproducibility into Practice: Workflows and Case Studies&#8221;, Rutgers Workshop on Reproducibility in Experimental and Computational Science, Piscataway, New Jersey, October 10, 2016. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3JS9TR6">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3JS9TR6</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-220'>&#8220;Data Analytics and Visualization: Experience from the Trenches&#8221;, Princeton-Trenton Chapter of the Special Libraries Association, Princeton, New Jersey, April 21, 2016.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-221'>“<a href="https://ryanwomack.com/ICPSR2015/">(A bit about) Data Visualization</a>”, ICPSR Biennial Meeting, Ann Arbor, Michigan, October 2, 2015.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-222'>&#8220;Data Visualization and Information Literacy&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Toronto, Canada, June 5, 2014.
<br />
 <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T37P8WM1">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T37P8WM1</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-223'>&#8220;The Rutgers Experience: Building Data Management and Repository Services&#8221;, National Network of Libraries of Medicine, Middle Atlantic Region (NN/LM MAR) Research Data Management Symposium, Rockefeller University, New York, April 28, 2014. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3QN64ZN">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3QN64ZN</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-224'>&#8220;The Rutgers Secure Data Facility: A Small Scale Solution&#8221;, Panel on Managing Access to Restricted Data in Universities, IASSIST Annual Conference, Cologne, Germany, May 29, 2013.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-225'>&#8220;The Disappearance of the Data Book, or, Whatever Happened to Summary Statistics?&#8221;, Documents Association of New Jersey, Fall Conference, Princeton University, December 17, 2012, with Bobray Bordelon.
<br />
<a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3JQ0Z0W">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3JQ0Z0W</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-226'>&#8220;R at Rutgers&#8221;, NewJerseyR Users Group Meeting, November 27, 2012, Iselin, New Jersey.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-227'>“Data Management Training to Support Faculty Research Needs: Lessons Learned”, IASSIST Annual Conference, Washington, DC, June 7, 2012, with the RUresearch Data Team. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3DB83H8">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3DB83H8</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-228'>“<a href="http://libguides.rutgers.edu/content.php?pid=115296&amp;sid=1039082">Finding Decennial Census Data</a>”, New Jersey State Data Center Annual Network Meeting, Rutgers University, June 17, 2010.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-229'>“Designing Data Services for the Institutional Repository”, IASSIST Annual Conference, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, June 2, 2010, with Ron Jantz. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3J38V7M">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3J38V7M</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-230'>“Doing Data on YouTube: Outreach and Education using Web 2.0”, IASSIST/IFDO Annual Conference, Tampere, Finland, May 27, 2009. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3NV9KWQ">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3NV9KWQ</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-231'>“Libraries as Information Intermediaries”, Scholarly and Professional Activities Committee, Rutgers University Libraries, New Brunswick, New Jersey, March 10, 2004.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-232'>“High Speed, High Price, High Demand: Business Internet Resources and Databases in American Academic Libraries”, Central Asia 2002: Internet and Library, Information Resources in Science, Culture, Education, and Business, Bukhara, Uzbekistan, October 16, 2002. <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T33F4N0W">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T33F4N0W</a>. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-233'>“Bel Jour: Building a Discipline-Specific Portal to Periodicals”. Presented at “Who&#8217;s in the Driver&#8217;s Seat: You or Technology”, New Jersey Library Association College and University Section/ACRL New Jersey Chapter Spring Symposium, Lincroft, New Jersey, May 22, 2002. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-234'>“The Expansion of Radio: An Analysis of the Development of a New Medium of Communication”, Alabama Library Association Annual Convention, Point Clear, Alabama, April 15, 1998.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-235'><div style='height:2ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-236'><em>Workshops</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-237'>Offer ongoing workshop series on R and statistical/data topics for Rutgers students, offered to students and faculty across the University, from a wide range of science and social science departments. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-238'><a href="https://ryanwomack.com/data_topics">“Data Topics”</a> series of workshops developed 2023-2027, integrated presentation of Data Science topics from R, Python, statistics, and programming topics using Quarto. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-239'><a href="https://github.com/ryandata/tidyverse_approach">“Tidyverse Approach”</a> series of workshops developed 2020-2021, focusing on data analysis, wrangling, and visualization using the tidyverse suite of R pacakges.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-240'>Special topics material on time series, survival analysis, visualization, and the &#8220;tidyverse&#8221;. Materials available on <a href="http://libguides.rutgers.edu/data_R">my R guide</a> and <a href="https://github.com/ryandata">ryandata Github page</a>. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-241'>&#8220;<a href="https://github.com/ryandata/dataliteracyforall">Data Literacy for All, with R</a>&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Montréal, Canada, May 29, 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-242'>&#8220;Introduction to Data Management for Researchers&#8221;, with Forough Ghahramani and Ron Jantz, Rutgers Discovery Information Institute and Virtual Data Collaboratory, Piscataway, New Jersey, May 15, 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-243'>&#8220;<a href="https://github.com/ryandata/dataliteracyforall">Data Literacy for All, with R</a>&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Lawrence, Kansas, May 23, 2017.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-244'>&#8220;<a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3CF9SS7">Topics in Data Science/Өгөгдлийн шинжлэх ухаан</a> [Data Visualization, Big Data, Reproducible Research, and Data Literacy]&#8221;, National Statistics Office of Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, May 8-9, 2017. PDF available at <a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3CF9SS7">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3CF9SS7</a>.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-245'>&#8220;Hands-On Big Data&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June 2, 2015. PDF available at 
<br />
<a href="https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3ZW1NPZ">https://doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3ZW1NPZ</a>. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-246'>&#8220;Data Visualization and R&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Toronto, Canada, June 3, 2014. PDF available at 
<br />
<a href="http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3VD6WNJ">http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.7282/T3VD6WNJ</a>. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-247'>&#8220;Data Visualization and R&#8221;, IASSIST Annual Conference, Cologne, Germany, May 29, 2013.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-248'>“Introduction to R”, IASSIST Annual Conference, Vancouver, Canada, May 31, 2011. Handout by Ryan Womack: &#8220;Introduction to R&#8221; and &#8220;R examples&#8221;, with Harrison Dekker.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-249'>“Introduction to R”, IASSIST Annual Conference, Ithaca, New York, June 1, 2010. Handout by Ryan Womack: &#8220;Introduction to Data Manipulation in R&#8221;. with Harrison Dekker.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-250'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-251'>Courses</h2>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-252'><a href="https://rfs.rutgers.edu">Rutgers Future Scholars</a>, summer intern program for rising high school juniors, provided data instruction for Libraries group in summer 2016-2019, 2023-2024.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-253'><a href="https://erdosinstitute.org">Erdös Institute</a>, <a href="https://www.erdosinstitute.org/code">Data Science Boot Camp</a>, teaching assistant, May 4-31, 2020. Converted to online instruction, joint program with The Ohio State University, Rutgers University-New Brunswick (School of Arts and Sciences), University of Michigan, and others.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-254'>&#8220;Big Data and Data Science&#8221;, Byrne Seminar (co-taught with Prof. Javier Cabrera, Dept. of Statistics and Biostatistics), Rutgers University, Spring 2020, Spring 2021, and Spring 2022.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-255'>&#8220;Big Data: Revolution and Reality&#8221;, Byrne Seminar (co-taught with Prof. Javier Cabrera, Dept. of Statistics and Biostatistics), Rutgers University, Spring 2016, Fall 2016, Fall 2017, and Fall 2018.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-256'>&#8220;Probability and Statistics with Small Data&#8221;, half-day session, part of &#8220;<a href="http://www.business.rutgers.edu/executive-education/data-driven-management">Mini-MBA: Data-Driven Management</a>&#8221;, Rutgers Business School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, April 25, 2018, November 8, 2018, and May 15, 2019.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-257'>&#8220;<a href="https://github.com/ryandata/multivariate">A Short Course in Multivariate Statistical Methods with R/Олон хэмжээст статистикийн богино хэмжээний сургалт R программ дээр</a>&#8221;, one-week mini-course, Mongolian University of Life Sciences [Хөдөө аж ахуйн их сургуул], Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, February 26-March 2, 2018. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-258'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-259'>Editorial</h2>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-260'>Founding Editor, <em>The Central Asia and Mongolia Gender Data Portal</em> (CAMGDP). <a href="https://camgdp.org">https://camgdp.org</a>. 2023-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-261'>Editorial Board, <a href="https://iassistquarterly.com">IASSIST Quarterly</a>, 2023-2027.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-262'>Editor, World Wide Web Review Column, <em>Journal of Business and Finance Librarianship</em>, vols. 12-16 (2006-2011).  Topical column reviewed web sites on the following topics: International Trade, Corporate Governance, Human Resources, Mutual Funds, Economic Ratings, Real Estate, Retirement, Small Business, Commodities, Business News, Country News, Think Tanks, International Organizations, Biotechnology, and Demographics.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-263'>Editor, Economics, <em>Resources for College Libraries</em>, ACRL/Bowker, 2007-2009.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-264'>Reviewer for <em>IASSIST Quarterly</em>, <em>Science and Engineering Ethics</em>, <em>Journal of Librarianship and Scholarly Communication.</em></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-265'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-266'>Grants</h2>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-267'>Senior Personnel and Lead for Education and Outreach (2020-2022), &#8220;Virtual Data Collaboratory – A Regional Cyberinfrastructure for Collaborative Data Intensive Science&#8221;, 2016-2022 ($4 million National Science Foundation Grant to develop a Virtual Data Collaboratory (VDC) for state of the art data-intensive computing, storage, and networking solutions, federated with an innovative interdisciplinary data services layer, across multiple universities in New Jersey and Pennsylvania)</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-268'>Co-Principal Investigator, “Research and Instructional Support Across Disciplines: Data Services”, 2009-2010 ($60,000 Academic Excellence Fund Grant to develop data services capacity on the Rutgers-Newark campus)</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-269'>Member, Video Mosaic Collaboratory project team, 2009-2010 , ($3 million National Science Foundation Grant to develop video archive and analytic tool for Rutgers Graduate School of Education collection of mathematics instruction recordings)</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-270'>Co-Principal Investigator, Virtual Collaboratory for Food, Nutrition and Business Information, 2004-2008, (Rutgers course and web portal, funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service Higher Education Challenge Grants Program)</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-271'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-272'>Honors and Awards</h2>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-273'>On Fulbright Specialist roster, 2017-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-274'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-275'>Professional Activities</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-276'><em>Offices held in Scholarly and Professional Societies</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-277'>Member-at-Large for USA, International Association for Social Science Information Service and Technology (IASSIST), 2019-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-278'>Secretary, IASSIST, 2015-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-279'>Chair, Nominating Committee of the Business Reference and Services Section (BRASS) of the Reference and User Services Association (RUSA) of the American Library Association (ALA), 2009-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-280'>Chair, Vendor Relations Committee, BRASS, 2008-2009</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-281'>Past Chair, BRASS, 2007-2008</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-282'>Chair, BRASS, 2006-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-283'>Chair, BRASS Executive Committee, 2006-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-284'>Vice-Chair/Chair-Elect, BRASS, 2005-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-285'>Chair, BRASS Membership Committee, 2004-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-286'>Chair, 2004 BRASS Annual Program Committee, 2002-2004</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-287'>Chair, Thomson Financial/Primark Student Travel Award Committee, BRASS, 2000-2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-288'>BRASS Representative to RUSA Nominating Committee, 2009-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-289'>BRASS Representative to RUSA Emerging Leaders Proposals Task Force, 2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-290'>BRASS Representative to RUSA Conference Program Coordinating Committee, 2004-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-291'>BRASS Representative to the Access to Information Committee, RUSA, 1999-2001</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-292'>Coordinator, IASSIST Jobs Repository, 2022-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-293'>Member, IASSIST Representation in Data Interest Group, 2022- (name changed from Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Interest Group in 2025, name changed from Anti-Racism Interest Group in 2023)</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-294'>Member, IASSIST Administrative Committee, 2015-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-295'>Member, IASSIST Conference Committee for 2023 Philadelphia Conference, 2022-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-296'>Member, IASSIST Executive Committee, 2015-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-297'>Member, IASSIST Open Source Interest Group, 2014-2017</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-298'>Member, IASSIST Data Visualization Interest Group, 2013-2017</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-299'>Member, IASSIST Data Management and Curation Interest Group, 2011-2015</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-300'>Member, IASSIST Special Interest Group on Data Citation, 2010-2014</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-301'>Member, IASSIST Membership Survey Action Group, 2010-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-302'>Member, IASSIST Conference Program Committee, 2009-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-303'>Member, Eurasia and Central Asian Subcommittee of the ALA International Relations Committee, 2008-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-304'>Member, BRASS Executive Committee, 2005-2008</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-305'>Member, RUSA Board of Directors, 2006-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-306'>Member, RUSA Planning and Finance Committee, 2005-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-307'>Member, BRASS Publications Committee, 2004-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-308'>Member, 2005 RUSA President&#8217;s Program Committee, 2004-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-309'>Member, 2003 Preconference Planning Committee, BRASS, 2001-2003</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-310'>Member, Collection Evaluation Techniques Committee, Collection Development and Evaluation Section (CODES), ALA, 1998-2002</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-311'>Member, Access to Information Committee, RUSA, 1997-1999</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-312'>Member, 1999 Program Planning Committee, BRASS, 1997-1999
<br />
</div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-313'><em>Memberships in Scholarly and Professional Societies</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-314'>American Statistical Association (lifetime member), 2011-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-315'>The Authors Guild, 2020-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-316'>Central Eurasian Studies Society 2024-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-317'>American Center for Mongolian Studies 2024-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-318'>IASSIST (International Association for Social Science Information Service and Technology), 2007-2034</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-319'>Association of Public Data Users, 2022-2034</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-320'>RDAP Association (Research Data Access and Preservation Association) 2021-2031</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-321'>Institute for Mathematical Statistics 2014-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-322'>American Library Association, 1996-2011, active in Reference and User Services Association (Business Reference and Services Section; Collection Development and Evaluation Section). Other memberships have included the Association of College and Research Libraries (Asian, African, and Middle Eastern Section; Slavic and East European Section), Government Documents Round Table, Maps and Geography Round Table, and International Relations Round Table.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-323'>American Economic Association, 1998-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-324'>American Society for Information Science and Technology, 1998-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-325'>Special Libraries Association, 2001-2005
<br />
</div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-326'><em>Major Professional Development Activities</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-327'>Certified Carpentries Instructor, 2019 (<a href="https://carpentries.org">https://carpentries.org</a>) - Software Carpentry, Data Carpentry, Library Carpentry</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-328'>Triangle Research Libraries Network Management Academy: &#8220;The Business of Libraries&#8221;, Chapel Hill, NC, 2015. <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/trlnmanagementacademy2016/alumni-2015">TRLN 2015</a></div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-329'>Summer Institute on Data Curation, University of Illinois Graduate School of Library and Information Science, Champaign, IL, 2011. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-330'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-331'>Service</h2>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-332'><em>National</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-333'>Member, Ithaka S+R Building Campus Strategies for Data Support Services project, 2023-2025, Rutgers team. Project to create national benchmarking data on current data support services, build tools to help users navigate existing services, and develop strategies for ensuring the future viability of data support services.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-334'>Member, ICPSR-IMLS project advisory committee, 2010-2012. This project formed partnerships between Institutional Repositories and ICPSR (Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research) to accomplish three goals. First, to curate and archive a small number of social science datasets as pilot studies. Second, to use these experiences to develop a best practices guide for Institutional Repositories for archiving such materials. Third, to identify and design services that ICPSR can offer to assist repositories in archiving social science data. </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-335'>Member, TeachingWithData.org advisory group, ICPSR, 2009-2011. NSF-National Science Digital Library project to create a website to help faculty to integrate quantitative literacy activities using social science data into their courses.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-336'>External reviewer, tenure review and promotion for librarians at many universities, averaging 1-2 year.</div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-337'><em>Regional</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-338'>Member, Advisory Board, New Jersey State Data Center, 2005-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-339'>Member, Census 2010 Complete Count Committee, New Jersey State Data Center, 2009-2010</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-340'>Member, Virtual Academic Library Environment (VALE) Interface Committee, 1999</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-341'><em>University </em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-342'>Chair, Evaluation Committee for Vice-President for Information Services and University Librarian, 2019-2021</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-343'>Co-Chair, Budget, Planning, and Infrastructure Committee, New Brunswick Faculty Council, 2017-2021</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-344'>Member, New Brunswick Faculty Council, 2017-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-345'>Member, COACHE Research Working Group, Research Support and Infrastructure Team, 2020-2021</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-346'>Member, AAUP Bargaining Committee, 2014-2015</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-347'>Member, AAUP Work and Family Standing Committee, 2008-2014</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-348'>Member, Advisory Committee for RU FAIR Data Warehouse, 2009-2011. NSF ADVANCE-funded project to create a data warehouse of information on gender, racial and ethnic equity in hiring and promotion at Rutgers.</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-349'>AAUP Representative, University-Wide Committee on Work and Family Issues, 2008-2009</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-350'>Member, Rutgers New Faculty Traveling Seminar, 2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-351'>Member, Search Committee for School of Management and Labor Relations Librarian, 2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-352'>Member, Advisory Committee for Instructional Computing, 2005</div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-353'>Member, School of Management and Labor Relations Library Task Force, 2000-2001 </div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-354'><em>College</em> </h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-355'>Member, Curriculum Committee, Livingston College, 2001-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-356'>Fellow, Livingston College, 1999-2007
<br />
</div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-357'><em>Rutgers University Libraries</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-358'>Faculty Chair, 2012-2013, 2024-2025</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-359'>Deputy Faculty Chair, 2011-2012, 2023-2024</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-360'>Chair, RUresearch Data Team, 2011-2016</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-361'>Chair, RUL World Languages Task Force, 2006-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-362'>Chair, LibData Review Committee, 2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-363'>Chair, Rules of Procedure Committee, 2003-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-364'>Chair, Social Sciences Networked Resources Evaluation Committee, 2001-2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-365'>Chair, Scholarly and Professional Activities Committee, 1999-2001</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-366'>Co-Chair, Streaming Instructional Videos Working Group, 2009-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-367'>Team Leader for Research Support Services, Workforce Planning Task Force, 2024</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-368'>New Brunswick Representative to Planning Committee, 2006-2007, 2019-2020</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-369'>New Brunswick Representative to Library Resources Council, 2009-2011, 2015-2017</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-370'>New Brunswick Representative to Planning and Coordinating Committee, 2006-2008</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-371'>Social Sciences Representative to User Services Council, 2008-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-372'>Social Sciences Representative to Committee on Scholarly Communication, 2007-2009</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-373'>Social Sciences Representative to Collection Development Council, 2001-2002</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-374'>Parliamentarian, 2021-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-375'>Mentor, during probationary period for librarian who received tenure in 2025, 2019-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-376'>Mentor, during probationary period for librarian who received tenure in 2014, 2008-2014</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-377'>Member, Faculty Planning Committee (formerly Coordinating Committee), 1999-2001, 2003-2004, 2006-2008, 2011-2013, 2019-2020, 2023-2025</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-378'>Member, Inclusivity Librarian Initiative Task Force, 2024-2025</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-379'>Member, Reading Committees for Librarian tenure actions (outside of NBL), 2018, 2021 (2), 2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-380'>Member, Research and Scholarly Environment Working Group, 2017-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-381'>Member, Research Leave Review Committee, 2017-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-382'>Member, Committee of Review, 2009-2010, 2015-2017</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-383'>Member, Research Data Exploratory Team, 2015-2016</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-384'>Member, Collection Analysis Group, 2015-2016</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-385'>Member, RUL Monograph Task Force, 2015-2016</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-386'>Member, Research Data Implementation Task Force, 2014</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-387'>Member, Software Architecture Working Group, 2011-2013</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-388'>Member, Cyberinfrastructure Steering Committee, 2010-2013</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-389'>Member, Web Board, 2010-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-390'>Member, RUCore Data Working Group, 2009-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-391'>Member, Learning Spaces Subcommittee, User Services Council, 2009-2011</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-392'>Member, Meebo (Chat) Reference Team, 2008-2010</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-393'>Member, ScienceDirect Task Force, 2009</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-394'>Member, Personnel Policy and Affirmative Action Committee, 2005-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-395'>Member, Digital Repository Review Committee, 2004-2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-396'>Member, Rules of Procedure Committee, 2005-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-397'>Member, Scholarly Communication Committee, 2003-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-398'>Member, ex officio, Communication/Marketing Team, 2005-2006</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-399'>Member, Social Sciences Networked Resources Evaluation Committee, 1999-2003</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-400'>Member, Collection Development Council Working Group on Digital Projects, 2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-401'>Member, Electronic Statistics Subgroup of Collection Development Council, 2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-402'>Member, Content Management System Working Group, 2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-403'>Member, Real-Time Reference Committee, 2002
<br />
</div>
</div>
<h4 class='subsubsection_' id='magicparlabel-404'><em>New Brunswick Libraries</em></h4>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-405'>Point of Contact, Statistical Data Services, 2019-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-406'>Point of Contact, Government Documents, 2020-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-407'>Point of Contact, Graduate Specialist Program, 2019-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-408'>Head, New Brunswick Libraries Research Services Unit, 2022-2025</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-409'>Head, Research and Content Department, 2015-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-410'>Chair, Search Committee for Social Sciences Librarian, 2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-411'>Chair, Standing Exploratory Committee, 2021-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-412'>Chair, Exploratory Committee for Future Librarian Roles, 2020-2021</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-413'>Chair, New Brunswick Libraries Faculty, 2007-2008, 2019-2020</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-414'>Deputy Chair, New Brunswick Libraries Faculty, 2006-2007, 2018-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-415'>Chair, Search Committee for three Part-Time Instruction Librarians, 2019-2020</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-416'>Chair, Travel Allocation Committee, 2018-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-417'>Chair, New Brunswick Collections Group, 2009-2011 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-418'>Chair, Social Sciences Subgroup, New Brunswick Collections Group, 2005-2009 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-419'>Chair, Data Center Task Force, 2008 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-420'>Chair, Peer Evaluation Committee, 2007-2008 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-421'>Chair, Search Committee for Social Sciences Data Librarian, 2006-2007 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-422'>Co-Chair, Travel Allocation Committee, 2008-2010 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-423'>Interim Librarian for Government Documents 2023-</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-424'>Interim Librarian for Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, 2021-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-425'>Interim Librarian for School of Social Work, 2021-2022 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-426'>Interim Business Librarian, 2008-2009, 2013, 2018-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-427'>Interim Data Librarian, 2003, 2007</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-428'>Coordinator, LibCal Calendar, 2020-25</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-429'>Coordinator, Multilingual Welcome to the Libraries, 2022-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-430'>Member, Research Data Services Team, 2018-25</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-431'>Member, New Brunswick Libraries Collections Unit, 2023-25</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-432'>Member, Standing Exploratory Committee, 2021-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-433'>Member, Equity and Social Justice Task Force, 2020-2023</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-434'>Member, Scholarly Communication Team, 2018-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-435'>Member, Learning Community Advisory Group, 2021-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-436'>Coordinator, JetStream, 2019-2022</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-437'>Member, Peer Evaluation Committee for Faculty Compensation Program, 2007, 2016, 2020</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-438'>Member, School of Environmental and Biological Sciences/New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station (SEBS/NJAES) Team, 2018-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-439'>Member, New Brunswick Libraries Strategic Planning Committee, 2018-2019 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-440'>Member, Alexander-OIT Reference Planning Group, 2018-2019</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-441'>Member, Research Data Outreach Team, 2016-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-442'>Member, Research Spaces Team, 2016-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-443'>Member, Global Experience Team, 2016-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-444'>Member, New Brunswick Libraries Steering Committee, 2016-2018</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-445'>Member, Business and Entrepreneurship Librarian Search Committee, 2017</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-446'>Member, Reading Committee for RUL librarian tenure and reappointment actions, 2005, 2006, 2012, 2016 (2), 2022, 2024</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-447'>Member, New Brunswick Collections Group, 1999-2015 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-448'>Member, Research and Instructional Services (New Brunswick) Reorganization Working Group, 2014-5</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-449'>Member, New Brunswick Information Services Group, 2010-2015 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-450'>Member, Search Committee for Chemistry/Physics Librarian, 2013</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-451'>Member, Alexander Library Research and Learning Commons Committee, 2011-2012 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-452'>Member, Alexander Library Reference and Lobby Redesign Committee, 2007-2009</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-453'>Member, Annual Review Committee for Librarian V, 2005 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-454'>Member, Technology Awareness Group, 2000-2005</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-455'>Acting Liaison for Reference and Information Services, Kilmer Library, 2002 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-456'>Member and Temporary Acting Chair, Search Committee for Digital Initiatives Librarian position, 2001 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-457'>Member, Exploratory and Search Committee for Information and Instruction Librarian position, 1999-2000 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-458'>Member, Committee to Develop A Vision Statement for the Kilmer Library for the 21st Century, 2000 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-459'>Member, New Brunswick Technology Group, 1999-2000 </div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-460'>Member, Real-Time Reference Working Group, 2000 </div>
</div>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-461'>Member, Approval Plan Fund Code Committee, 1999</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-462'>Skills</h2>
<div class='hanging'>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-463'>Proficient in R and RStudio, Shiny Server, Python and Jupyter, LaTeX, LyX, Git/Github, Hugo, MySQL, CalyxOS, Digital Ocean, Debian/Ubuntu, Fedora/RedHat Linux, Tails, Qubes, LibreOffice, Opnsense, Pi-hole, Render, Vercel, Wasabi</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-464'>Working familiarity with Maple, Mathematica, SAS, Stata, Hadoop ecosystem, other Cloud platforms (Azure, Google), HPC platforms including Rutgers Amarel, other Database platforms, other Linux distributions</div>
<div class="hanging_item" id='magicparlabel-465'><div style='height:5ex'></div></div>
</div>
<h2 class='section_' id='magicparlabel-466'>Linguistic Ability</h2>
<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-467'>English (fluent reader, speaker &amp; writer) </div>

<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-468'>French / Français (fluent reader, intermediate speaker &amp; writer)</div>

<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-469'>Mongolian / Монгол (intermediate reader &amp; speaker, basic writer)</div>

<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-470'>Russian / Русский (fluent reader, intermediate speaker &amp; writer)</div>

<div class='standard' id='magicparlabel-471'>Turkic languages (familiarity with vocabulary and grammar, focusing on learning Kazakh)</div>
</body>
</html>
